feat: base docs (#58)
LimeChain/RollupCodes: src/docs/base.mdx

---
title: Base
subtitle: Base is an Optimistic Rollup utilizing the OP Stack technology. The protocol features a centralised sequencer operated by the Base team. Fraud proofs have yet to be enabled on the platform.
labels:
    - Optimistic Rollup
    - EVM
    - Mainnet
links:
    website:
        url: https://base.org/
        name: base.org
    docs:
        url: https://docs.base.org/
        name: Docs
    l2beat:
        url: https://l2beat.com/scaling/projects/base
        name: L2Beat
    github:
        url: https://github.com/base-org
        name: Github
    twitter:
        url: https://twitter.com/BuildOnBase
        name: BuildOnBase
---

<Section title="Overview">
   Base is an Optimistic Rollup utilizing OP Stack technology. The protocol features a centralised sequencer operated by the Base team. Fraud proofs have yet to be enabled on the platform.

    ###### Focus

>     - Contribute to the Research and Development of the Optimism SuperChain, the goal of which is to enable superior interoperability and aligned crypto-economic incentives for a shared validator set between all OP-based rollups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Contribute to the Research and Development of the Optimism SuperChain, the goal of which is to enable superior interoperability and aligned crypto-economic incentives for a shared sequencer set between all OP-based rollups.
```

>     - Decentralize upgradeability of the Base and Optimism Mainnet smart contracts, first to a security council with a decentralized quorum controlled by no single entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Progressively decentralize the upgradeability of the Base and Optimism Mainnet smart contracts.
```

>     - Becoming Stage 1 rollup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Research and Develop fault prover technology that would secure OP Stack-based rollups.
```

labels:
    - Optimistic Rollup
    - EVM
    - Mainnet
links:
    website:
        url: https://base.org/
        name: base.org
    docs:
        url: https://docs.base.org/
        name: Docs
    l2beat:
        url: https://l2beat.com/scaling/projects/base
        name: L2Beat
    github:
        url: https://github.com/base-org
        name: Github
    twitter:
        url: https://twitter.com/BuildOnBase
        name: BuildOnBase
---

<Section title="Overview">
   Base is an Optimistic Rollup that has been developed on the Ethereum network, utilizing OP Stack technology. The protocol features a centralised sequencer operated by the Base team. Fraud proofs have yet to be enabled on the platform.

    ###### Focus

    - Launch at least one fault prover for the OP Stack that will secure both Base and Optimism Mainnet by leveraging a set of validators to identify and challenge faults.
    - Optimism SuperChain
    - Decentralize upgradeability of the Base and Optimism Mainnet smart contracts, first to a security council with a decentralized quorum controlled by no single entity.

>     - Becoming Stage 1 rollup

Author: This is according to L2Beat categorization: https://l2beat.com/scaling/projects/base. They don't have fault proofs on mainnet yet, so they are still considered stage 0 by them. the first bullet point comes from their blog post talking about their roadmap: https://base.mirror.xyz/H_KPwV31M7OJT-THUnU7wYjOF16Sy7aWvaEr5cgHi8I

    <Labels labels={['Optimistic Rollup', 'EVM', 'Mainnet']} title="Base" />

</Section>

<Section title="General">

    <Parameter name="Block time" value="2 seconds" tooltip="The rate at which the rollup produces blocks. Keep in mind that the value is subject to change in the future" />

    <Parameter name="Gas Limit" value="30 million" tooltip="The gas limit that can be consumed by an L2 block" />

    <Parameter name="Gas Target" value="5 million" tooltip="The EIP-1559 gas target for an L2 block" />

    <Parameter name="Sequencing Frequency" value="0.5 - 2 minutes" tooltip="The frequency at which the rollup posts L2 transactions on Ethereum L1. The time varies based on the amount of calldata that must be posted on L1" />

    <Parameter name="Finality" value="7 days" tooltip="The time it takes for an L2 transaction to be considered final after it is sequenced on L1" />

>     <Parameter name="Rollup’s State Contract on L1" value={<Reference label="0x49048044D57e1C92A77f79988d21Fa8fAF74E97e" url="https://etherscan.io/address/0x49048044D57e1C92A77f79988d21Fa8fAF74E97e" />} tooltip="The contract used for sequencing, proving and storing the state of the L2 network" />

Author: you're right, considering it works the same way as Optimism that is the correct contract address.

    | <Copy value="0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000019" label="0x420...019" /> | <Reference label="BaseFeeVault" url="https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/master/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L2/BaseFeeVault.sol" /> | Receives the basefees on L2. The basefee is not burnt on L2 like it is on L1. Once the contract has received a certain amount of fees, the ETH can be withdrawn to an immutable address on L1 |
    | <Copy value="0x420000000000000000000000000000000000001a" label="0x420...01a" /> | <Reference label="L1FeeVault" url="https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/master/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L2/L1FeeVault.sol" /> | Receives the L1 portion of the transaction fees. Once the contract has received a certain amount of fees, the ETH can be withdrawn to an immutable address on L1 |

</Section>

<Section title="RPC-API">

    <Legend />

>     The following endpoints behave differently compared to the canonical Ethereum L1 implementation of the JSON RPC API.

Reviewer: Does base have the same RPC changes as Optimism? If that's so, then we would need to add them in the list here, f.e `optimism_outputAtBlock` etc.

And it seems that there is a new RPC endpoints - `optimism_rollupConfig` and `optimism_version`. Lets add them to the Optimism RPC data

Author: I tried calling each one of them using the Base rpc url, however each one of them returned "not supported" message. I removed them because the structure of the document implies we want to show only differences to mainnet and not to Optimism
